# comp163-assignment-5
# Why did you choose each loop type for each challenge
For the first challenge I choose a while loop because I didn't know the exact amount of times the loop would iterate. The amount of times the loop would iterate depended heavily on what the user put as their input for the loop. Which could have been any number they wanted assuming they are only putting in positive numbers. 
For the second challenge I used a while loop and a nested for loop within the while loop. I used a while as the outer loop because once again I don't know how many tiems the loop will iterate and it depended heavily on the number the user inputted. The reason I used a for loop as the inner loop because I know that after the number is given I want to test if the number is prime using numbers from 2 through (number given - 1). Therefore I could use the range function within a for loop to iterate a set amount of times to find out whether or not the number is prime. 
For the third challenge I used a for loop because the amount of times the loop is going to iterate is computable. Therefore I used the for loop and used a range that would output a muliplication table for 1- 10. 

# How your solutions work
First Challenge: For the first challenge I used a while loop with the condition while the current_number, current_number is the variable the user can input their number into, is not 1 execute the loop. Once the loop is executed the number then goes through an if-else statement. If the remainder of the number after being divided by two equals zero it means the number is even and it has to be divided by two. if the remainder isn't 0 then it goes through the else statement becasue the number is odd and the number would be multiplied by 3 and then add 1. After it goes through the if statement I print out the current number and increase step by 1. This is so that at the end of the loop I know how many steps it took for the number to get to a number less than 1. This process is repeated as amny times as it takes until the current_number equals 1. When the current_number equals 1, I have an if statement within the lop that will execute and print the number, increment step by 1 and then break out of the loop. This is how I got through the first challenge

Second Challenge: For the second challenge I used a while loop as an outer loop that executes as long as the is_it_prime, the variable used for the user's input, is more than 1 it will execute. The first thing it prints is the range of which the number will be checked against. Then there is a for lopp that will test each number from 2 to is_it_prime -1. Within the for loop I have an if statement that says if the remainder of is_it_prime divided by a number in range equals 0 print the number "is not prime (divisible by" the number is_it_prime is being divided by. I then have a variable called exit and it sets exit equal to one. Once exit equals one their is an if statement in the while loop that says if exit equals 1 break. If none of the numbers is_it_prime is being divided by isn't 0 then it prints is_it_prime "is prime!" and then breaks out the while loop. 

Third Challenge: For the thrid challenge I have one for loop meant to print out each number in the range 1 - 11. Within the for loop I have an elif statement that says if the number the loop is on equals 9 print the number with a different amount of space and I did the same thing with 10 except I left off the space. This is because the spacing between 9 and 10 is different thatn the rest of the numbers so I wanted to make sure the loop addressed the spacing difference between 9 and 10. I have another for loop that prints rows 2 - 11. The for loop repeats for the range 1 - 11 and prints the number each time. Within the for loop I have a nested fo loop which does the actual math piece for each column. It repeast for the range 1 - 11 and within the for loop there is another if-elif statement that address the same spacing issue the first for loop had. If the number doesn't equal 9 or 10 it prints the product of the row number and the column it's in. 

# Any AI Assistance used
I used AI to help me debug the first. I had an issue with the first problem in outputting one and I had AT help me fix it. 
